e e
good morning folks good
morning just going to be doing an audio
check here in a minute trying to see if
I can hear myself
audio check one
audio check
too okay yeah we're good I can hear me I
can hear the old man all right so
premium gap
opening up
here on the 50-minute time frame you can
see we we bumped this High you see that
here and
on one minute chart
I was telling my son who was good
morning Caleb how are you I'm doing
great all right that's a pretty good Ben
with some that isn't
it yeah comment saying that there is no
Caleb there is no
Caleb all right so uh southside's been
taken here we want to see does it have
an interest to be R further or if it
wants to bang around inside this range
admittedly I'm a
little
um prepared let's say it this way I'm
prepared for it to be a rather
lackluster morning session um and I'll
go into detail as to why I believe that
once we get a little bit further into
the opening range uh right now it's 9:31
930s Cy here we're not factoring that
Caleb's got to use the first fair value
Gap that could only form as early as
9:31 so while yes we are aware that
that's there I'm teaching him to
use the one that forms at
9:31 or
later for the folks that are comfortable
with using the 15-second time
frame you may note that there's a gap
here that's still inside the 9:30
minute so it's good to not it but it's
not what we're using today
okay right now the left chart Caleb is 1
minute but it's showing electronic
trading hours so that that time
begins at 600 p.m. eastern time and it
trades until 5:00 p.m. close today which
closes the week but also closes the
session for 1 hour if it was if we
traded on uh Saturday which we don't um
it would reopen at six o'clock but in
this case since it's Friday electronic
trading hours will close at 5:00 p.m.
today and then won't open again until
Sunday 6 pm. eastern time but the
regular trading hours here
I was showing you before the stream
started and they're all familiar with
this the
414 from yesterday to the first opening
price here there's 70 second chance that
the market will come back down and trade
half Gap so that's consequent corre of
the difference between yesterday is 414
settlement price which is regular
trading hours and you always have to
make sure you're looking at the right on
in the morning at the opening bell if
there's a gap you'll see it'll look
totally different in terms of the chart
on electronic trading
hours but the settlement price here the
close to the opening price at 930 that's
the opening range gap opening range is
time between 9:30 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. so
that 30 minute interval the algorithms
use that as a kind of like a a
preliminary range to establish number
one the first inbalance um initial highs
and initial lows and then you use that
information to build a narrative on how
the daily range will build whether it be
a bullish day or a bearish day we're not
trying to predict the closing price I
will be teaching you that but it's not
here today it's not we're not in that
yet you have other things to worry about
first all right so we have that and now
I'm going to add the quadrant levels as
well and you simply just do
this so now I have the opening range Gap
levels we can go back to electronic
Shing
hours so now we have
our key levels cell side's been
taken so there is by
side resting up here
and we have minor cell side now at the
load is
formed so far on the one minute chart we
have
no inefficiency except for the 9:30
candle still useful but for your model
you have to use the next one after that
931 931 starts your seeking of a fair
value
Gap you might think well Dad why don't I
just use this one right because it's
there well because you're referring to
the opening range Gap and because
there's a lot of volatility that can
come into the marketplace because of a
gap or because the Gap may not be that
significant and maybe a small Gap um in
this case we've had a a little bit of a
um it's not a big gig it's not a big gap
I would have rather had a larger gap
between its low and its high so in other
words yesterday's 415 or 414 settlement
price on the one minute chart versus the
9301 printed price
today we want something ideally more
than 40 handles I personally like
something that's closer to the
75 I know that the range is going to be
very uh um I mean this is your this is
your fair B Gap right there
okay so that's the one you would put out
into the future with uh extending it
into
the
right and we'll just keep it gray for
now so today's Friday
and since we've had basically an up
session every day this week um TGIF is a
factor
where you see these relative equal
lows that's your draw for sell side
okay now just be mindful because I'm
going to scroll the chart over so you're
not going to see this I'm just focus on
the price action over here but this
right here is what we're looking at you
understand
yes so because it's Friday uh because we
had a premium gap opening because we
have
left that
Gap to the downside and and traded below
it
um it could be viewed as kind of like a
an exhaustion Gap meaning that we gapped
up there at the open of the session
today and then it trades down feels the
Gap tries to rally and then folds and
goes
lower so we can now use the low of the
gap as a means of treating it like a
fair value Gap in other words if it
trades back up into it and it struggles
to get into it in any uh
degree and if it starts to roll over and
trade lower then we can use u a
subsequent fair value Gap um a very
small short-term swing High to be rated
for like a turtle suit where it just
goes and gets a short-term liquidity and
then bang and drops lower um TGIF
because we've had a up we
all this week 20% to 30% of the weekly
range is usually what I like to see um
it doesn't need to do it if it doesn't
do it today then usually on Monday
you'll have some kind of a retracement
into
that previous week's range to amount of
20 30% all right so we're inside that
fair value Gap
here and scroll down here so the setup
running back into this Gap here you're
going to study
how it behaves here from this fair value
gap down to the liquidity that's been
noted with these relative equal lows
right
there this settlement price here I'm
going to just put a a box on it CU I
want you to see the color
difference in terms of like a
range and we'll do
this so what I did is I I noted
yesterday's
414 settlement price up to today's
opening price at 930 so when you're
using regular trading hours it's not
going to plot any the price
fluctuation between those two times but
when you go to electronic trading
hours you're going to see that there's
been a lot of trading since there's you
know it's been doing a whole lot more
right
so because now we can see we we gapped
open
higher with this price on this
Candlestick here and the low of that
shaded pink area that's the actual gap
between yesterday's 94 I'm sorry 44 p.m.
eastern time settlement price to 9:30 is
opening price today so that Gap we we
opened here which is a premium it sold
off came back up and then left the Gap
you see that and then right here we hit
it at the low of that pink shaded area
but it's also consequent encroachment
of that first fair value of the
day see
that see there on this cam stick right
there hitting it yes okay so we would
want to see does it have the ability to
want to or an interest to repic down to
the cell
side from there because the
the underlying Dynamics are it's Friday
it's been going up all week long it's
healthy for it to go down there even if
it wants to go higher they can go down
there and pick up the stops where they
can buy from someone that wants to sell
to them at a cheap discount
price so if if they can see that those
relative equal lows down there retail
Traders would see that as support and we
like to look for areas where we can
scoop up sell stops or short buy stops
and if you start blending these things
together you can kind of like flesh out
a narrative where not just one thing is
leaning on the basis of why you're
taking a trade or why you expect the
price to move a specific way there has
to be at least three factors there and
one of the main things is time there has
to be a reason for it to move based on
time
and if you trade outside of the trade
setups that are not factoring heavily on
the element of time you can still get
setups but you're not going to get that
um institutional sponsorship that comes
with the moves that usually are
delivered by a Time based mechanism like
the the first 10 minutes before you get
to the top of the hour so 950 to 10:00
that that 10 minute interval and from
10:00 to 10:10 that interval is 20
minutes in interval so that's a macro so
usually um the algorithms will start
firing off and it's spooling price to
run to an inefficiency above or below
the
marketplace or it's running to liquidity
above an old high or relative equal
highs or below an old low or relative
equal lows so if you have these these
expectations on what price may do around
that specific
time even if you don't have a bias you
can go in and watch the first few
minutes of the day and
then not all the time and and this is a
skill set you'll develop as you do more
of it watching price and studying but
you'll discover that you're learning how
to discover the narrative for the
morning session you're not trying to
predict daily Candlestick right now but
you're just trying to get a feel for
what is the most likely
probable
outcome based on where we opened up at
9:30 relative to where we closed at 4:14
yesterday p.m. regular session
hours where is the liquidity why should
it be why should it be interested to go
higher or why should it be interested to
go lower what liquidity is there is it
relative equal highs there is there
relative equal lows there is there a
large inefficiency above the uh market
price or is there a large inefficiency
below the market price so these are all
questions that I ask myself um
there's very specific things and the
times when you're watching price where
it is so heavily handed on one side of
the marketplace where it's hard to argue
you the position from a buyer's
perspective or a short seller's
perspective if you can justify the trade
or the idea what you think the Mark's
going to do at the given time while
you're looking at the price if you can
justify on both sides of the spectrum
being a buyer or seller that's not high
probability would you agree yeah I would
agree so would it not be advantageous
for you to focus on days and times when
the market
is presenting
suggestions that the market would want
to go lower
because less informed traders that use
Concepts like support and resistance if
they see a level that's too smooth above
or
below um it's natural to to expect
there' be orders below or above those
highs right or below those lows yes so
if we know that that's the case we don't
need a bookmap we don't need any kind of
U application to kind of draw some
special attention to it we can clearly
see and read the chart like anybody else
would but you have to put yourself in a
position that a retail Trader doesn't
have most times they don't have the
perception of order flow they don't look
at things that
are um beyond the scope
of support or resistance diagonal
support diagonal resistance with with
trend lines or some kind of pattern and
these classic chart patterns while we
can historically go back and see how how
they may have worked
visually in certain instances but that's
not what causes price to do that so if
we can look for times when the retail
Trader is arm wrestling something that's
a little bit
more I guess more
uh real like orders in the marketplace
why the market should trade to to a
level why like there's nothing
inherently bullish about a pennant
pattern or a bull flag pattern
just because you see it rally up a
little bit and it start to consolidate
retail Traders would see that as oh it's
a bull flag so it's get to go
higher but if the Market's not
predisposed they want to go higher
because there's a a resting pool of
liquidity up there and it's already done
the damage below that bull flag meaning
that it's made the market
Jagged if if it's smooth above that bull
flag in price action somewhere in close
proximity chances are that bull flag
would probably deliver on the basis of
what a retail Trader would expect
because then they're finding themselves
trading a pattern within the
underlying order flow that price is
going to submit to because it's running
for the liquidity it's not running
because it sees a bull flag it's not
going to go up because there's a bull
flag there and vice versa if there's
something that's indicating that the
market is likely to go lower um just
because there might be a bare flag or a
pennant pattern or a wedge pattern or a
descending triangle these are all
classic perceived price patterns
and because that idea is prevalent in
trading where and I dad started the same
way reading these books you think wow
you know it demystifies all of these
open high L and Clos bars which is what
I was using when I first started
um it gives you a Rhyme or Reason as to
why you should do the very thing that
I'm teaching my students to do the the
slowest movement towards which is
executing and pushing the button and
retail is given lots of excuses to go in
there and take trades just take trades
because look at all these things these
are reasons to get into a trade versus
let's take a step back and think through
ourselves why would it what would be the
underlying Catalyst for that price
pattern to to see it unfold like that
just because you think you see it like a
like a roar Shack a roar Shack pattern
if you go to see u a psychologist
they'll take a piece of paper and
they'll drop a
a drop of Ink on it and then they'll
fold the paper in half move it around a
little bit and then open it up let it
dry and then they'll it'll it'll be
shown to a patient and they'll say what
do you
see and whatever they want to manifest
whatever they're seeking internally or
whatever they're fearful of they'll see
that in that that Roar Shack it's a it's
a ink blot has nothing to it but it
allows the psychologist or the person
that's doing an evaluation on them to
get a baseline of how they internalize
things and whatever you internalize
you're going to you're going to
materialize that in your decision making
in trading so if you are a person that
is constantly looking for something that
is based on uh like a
gambler like they're going to look for
they're going to have a list of of of
things to get them into a trade they're
going to have a lot of things they're
going to be looking for every classic
foolish pattern because they think the
Market's going up because they've been
some kind of Reddit Channel or they've
been in a telegram Channel or they watch
my video and they probably heard
something that they think that I'm
trying to get some some little message
that Hey look it's time to buy it's time
to sell and they just now okay now
they're keyed up they're ready to be
looking for that thing that gets them
into something and I felt victim to that
a lot as a 20-year-old like I I I
unfortunately weaponize myself with all
these poor excuses to get into a
trade and it has me more to it
and we're inside half the Gap so if if
we're bearish on this is what you want
to be looking at even though we went
through the fair bag Gap it's fine I
mentioned earlier I said you know I
think we're going to have a lack luster
morning when we first started the
session but because we went back into
that opening range gap which is that
shaded area it's pink we want to see it
stay out of that upper portion so this
red level here to this high up here we
don't want to see any of that it can
touch the consequent encroachment that
Wick or another Wick can trade up there
but we don't want any bodies up there so
we want this is like a no a noo
Zone all this area right
here we want to see that
portion left alone we don't want to see
nothing up there if it's bearish so how
do you use this
information well if it starts to
displace lower and leaves and gets below
this fair value Gap
I know these are not good choices of
color but the
uh as long as it stays outside of this
area here it can Wick into it we just
don't want to start seeing bodies laying
down in this area because then it makes
it even more likely that the Market's
going to be
indecisive so by having these parameters
it says it's what you're willing to let
it trade up here and still hold the idea
that it could potentially visit down
here for the cell side because it's TG
Friday thank God it's Friday that's what
it means um and it means simply looking
for a 20 to 30% retracement on the
weekly range so the highest high of the
week to the lowest low of the week you
drop a fib on that and what the 20%
level is that's what my objective is is
to see do we have a reason to frame
something technically to get to that
level and I'll show you what that is in
a minute but I just want to give you the
foundations of what we're looking for so
in this Gap here
right now this is the uh the framework
that would be expected based on the fact
that we didn't trade to the upper
half of that opening range
Gap so because we haven't even touched
the consequent Coachman if we leave like
we've done here if we leave that come
back up you can touch that first fair
value Gap again and it could be treated
as an inversion I'm sorry I did it again
uh
this is why dad does not have the stuff
on the charts when I'm trading but
because I'm describing it as I'm
watching it I made the mistake the other
day and I called a uh reclaimed bullish
Fair B Gap uh inversion Fair B and once
I started talking about it because I was
live I just kept going on with it and I
didn't realize until I went back in
answering someone else's question they
didn't notice it but when I saw I was
like oh no I did that wrong so uh this
weekend on your channel I'm going to
make a a smaller presentation about that
but because we had this down closed
candle and the market was going back up
into it that is a potential bearish fair
value Gap and we went above it here but
if we leave it see I don't want to see
it do that while we did have the wick
outside of it the fact that we kept the
body inside of it that's exactly what
I'm talking about this is the very
things I was mentioning when we first
start of the stream that I have very low
expectations but I have to because
they're all listening and and you're
learning too um my personal expectation
is and the only thing that I would want
to frame on a a trade setup this morning
would be a run into this area down here
even if it's bullish even it want to go
higher on the day and keep going higher
for the next couple weeks it doesn't
matter that this is still something
that's reasonable to trade down into and
it's actually beneficial for it to go
down there if it's going to go up longer
term because it's going down there to
pick up more orders that smart money
could buy at a really deep discount
relative to where we open up today
because we opened up here at this
price and as long we stay in the lower
half down here that's fine that that
this narrative is still potentially
there but just because it's still
potentially there doesn't mean that's or
inside the fair value Gap the first fair
value Gap why don't you go on short like
you're probably thinking okay Dad you're
in the fair got why aren't you taking
the short why aren't you selling it
there because I want to see it displaced
below it leave a body close away from it
and that imbalance I want to see does it
go back up into it and touch it again
like trade up in the bottom of it and
then I would expect it to trade lower or
if you want to be very very conservative
you can wait for it to do like it's
doing here it needs to close away from
the Bel low of that that the darken
about
because there you go so I know these
chart colors are not making everybody
hyy right now but I don't give a [__] I
have to be able to talk about it while
I'm doing it so now we have a small
little ince right there I would like to
see this Candlestick not come back up to
it yet not yet I want to see it close
leave that open and then if it starts to
drop away from that that means this
could be a breakaway Gap we see that's
okay I don't like that but now we need
to see it displac from there once if it
does it you turn your attention over to
the 15sec chart and then the very first
sphere value Gap that forms over here
once it trades back up into it that
could be a catalyst for you to get into
a
move to write it down into the cell side
here do you see what I just did I worked
from one time frame building what what
what my expectation would be based on
very specific parameters it's what do
you wait for ICT what are you waiting
for what are you looking for what is it
that you're expecting to see and how can
I find that setups that are going to be
a little bit more favorable versus just
picking the first fair value gy because
now everybody thinks they have a secret
weapon because I taught them to find the
first fair value Gap in the opening
range so while it's great and it can see
it in hindsight they're still probably
scared shitless about how to go how to
get into it and then you have the
goobers that will say well look it runs
through it yeah it's going to do that
but you have to wait for time and we're
inside the macro now at
957 here we're inside the time element
of it
and you're blending first time so the
the market should start spooling that
means it's going to run it's not
directional it just means it's going
going to run higher or lower so how do
you determine the direction well we open
up high at the 9:30 price here relative
to yesterday's 4:14 so when the public
sees that they say wow we're higher than
when we closed yesterday it's bullish
let me buy it and Chase
it professionals they want to see it do
what settle into that Gap and then the
real picture will happen it'll give you
more insights about what the market will
likely do so by having an next
expectation on what the retail
perspective Trader will
think if we know that these relative
equal lows down
here are too
obvious there's there's resting orders
down there I don't need a depth of
Market I don't need a ladder I don't
need a book map I don't need any kind of
these these gimmicks that people are are
are leaning on right now and it's good
that they have something to go by but
you don't need that you know what I'm
saying like you don't need to have those
tools because all you have to do is let
the chart tell you the price is going to
tell you everything you need to know as
long as you can see what time it is what
day it
is what where do we have an inefficiency
where is there relative equal highs
relative equal lows and all you need is
just that and you have everything you
need to find setups that are going to
never run out of Supply like you always
you always find setups so because it's
likely to draw down here and it's Friday
we've moved up every day
bullish there's your Gap right here
on the 15 second chart
so all you're doing is you're waiting
for opportunities to see price behave in
a manner that
is
obvious um it gives you immediate
feedback if the trade ideas right you'll
see all the things that would lead up to
that
setup come to fruition
quickly there it won't spend a whole lot
of time messing around in levels like if
if you expect it to go lower everything
that you would expect to see
price uh Ed to keep it from going higher
if those factors are not being seen in
price action chances are you have
initial feedback that your trade idea is
probably not on side on side means
you're right about the direction buice
or if you're in a trade that you're
bullish that means everything is
indicating that the Market's still going
higher and there's nothing that should
upset you or make you
nervous by having PD arrays and by
having things U around
time expecting price to behave a certain
way the more things you can stack in
your favor not just simply because it's
at 950 to 10:10 it's time to take a
trade and let's just go in and do
something you have to have a basis of
what it is you're framing the IDE on and
if you don't have that then you don't
have a narrative understood and if
you're Trading trading without
understanding The Narrative narrative is
not
bias okay bias is are you bullish or you
bearish you got to go One Step Beyond
that like you got to know where is it
likely to go and why would it
be realistic to assume it's going to go
there so my framework around the idea of
getting down to these lows that make
this line here if that is something
that was happening on a
Monday um
it would probably be less less likely to
occur because money's a new week and
they may be doing something entirely
different to frame of narrative whereas
we have it's Friday today we've been
going up every single day and we haven't
had a lot of range to the upside but
we've we've we've traveled higher all
all this week so it's reasonable to see
some kind of a retracement and all you
do is simply look for reasons to take
out old lows or trade or reprice to Old
lows or an old low in this case we have
just obvious relative equal lows so I'm
not interested in being long I don't
care less if this thing went up 100
handles I that's a simply not a trade I
would be in do you understand yes so it
allows me to be
comfortable with one side of the
marketpl waiting for a setup that is
logical that it is in a in a time that
the Market's going to behave a certain
way where it's easy to see it where it's
easy it's one-handed um not one-handed
one-sided think about where we have open
that at 9:30 and where we're trading at
right
now other
days when the market
has more week more time in the week
before Friday's close it'll offer a lot
better cleaner price action and you
won't have all of this back and forth
back and forth back and forth the reason
why we didn't have that large of a
gap was indicating that it was going to
be this kind of
morning if you're looking to trade and
use large leverage which is most of what
my students are trying to do because
they're using this funded accounts
they're trying to really strap on this
big ass uh contract size because they
want to be able to get something quick
they want to give big windfall victories
and they're greedy and they're
impatient you can't do those types of
trades in days in mornings like this if
you have a large gap very large gap
opening you have the first signature
that tells you okay yes if you know what
you're doing and you know what you're
expecting then you can see a little bit
larger risk not that larger risk is
right but why would you want to risk the
maximum in a market that has several
things going against it right
away that's the that's a gamblers
mentality where they'll go in and
they'll try to
uh force their will on it and dad has
done that a lot when I was 20 like I I'm
I'm gonna it it it stopped me out or it
scared me out of my trade and I got out
of it and then it ran where I wanted to
go as a 20-year-old it was it would make
me mad and then I'd go in i' like I'm
going to exact Revenge on it soybean
Market your ass is mine you know and
then it would hand me my backside even
more you know and I didn't learn my
lesson for a long time doing that so one
of the biggest things I started to
invest my time in is determining when
not to take
trades when not to when not to expect it
to
be an invitation for me to get in but
there's always an invitation for you to
study so perfect example we opened up
with a
indication by me at the opening of
session that I think this is going to be
a lackluster
morning based on how we opened because
we open this way um all the things can
be in the chart we have the fair value
Gap did you see me say entry did you see
me push the demo did you see me doing no
no we're waiting because I want to show
you how having this first indication
that it's going to be
problematic if if you read my comments
okay most of them are all like sicking
sweet like supportive I love you and I
thank you for teaching all that stuff
and that's great I appreciate all that
but we went to the top of the opening
range Gap
here went to the upper quadrant you see
that and this type of action here that
is that's actually productive I like to
see that if we get down below that fair
value Gap again here same scenario then
we would want to see it now we've had
the market redelivered almost to the top
and left small little portion see that
yes so that's the way devil's advocate
for a minut let me finish my fault first
um they'll say you're hiding your losing
traits what they don't realize is I'm
using what I'm teaching here today is
I'm being highly selective and they're
ignoring the fact that the things I'm
talking about live in the live stream
they're the things that are panning out
so
the now watch your watch your your Gap
here on the 15sec chart
okay if it can offer some kind of a a
smaller fair value Gap in the range here
before this low is taken then if it
starts to sell out it's should to
accelerate and very quickly run down
into
here but if you don't have the if if you
don't have a skill set
or an attempt to get into the mark place
with the pursuit of knowing when you
should sit still
why should you rush into to do something
right now well you're greedy you're
impatient you're impulsive or you're
chasing somebody else's influence and
that's one of the things I can't stand
about social media because there's a lot
of people online that are selling
courses they're they're inspiring people
watching them to get into a trade and
it's advantageous for them to do that
because they're going to blow their
account and then they're going to use
that same affiliate link underneath that
video and that person's like a drug
dealer getting them hopped up they're
blowing their accounts on their live
stream too and they get used to thinking
well it's still cool we're all we're all
community of losers and the guy that's
running or the gal that's running the
YouTube channel they're actually
profiting off of these zombies that are
literally in there just blindlessly
following them and saying okay I'm just
going to go in here but we're part of a
tribe we're part of a community so I'm
thankful I didn't come up in that
because I think as a 20-year-old I
probably would have got caught up in
initially because I wanted to find my
place in it and I teach my students that
they are home in themselves they don't
need to be in another Community they
don't need to be in my community okay
there's no team ICT
but imagine if you don't have these
reference points like I'm showing you
here today and then also not
expecting that it's going to be a
problematic morning session and you just
simply go in there and say well we have
these things then we went back to the
first one minute fair value Gap here so
the first presented Fair gap on the one
minute chart is this darker one here I'm
going to take this uh this shaded area
off this is your one minute first
presented Fair B
Gap and it's valid because it is at 9:35
it's not on 9:30 candle so anything
between 9:31 or 9:31 to
10:00 whatever Fair Val got that forms
on the one minute chart that's that's
yours that's the one you use I don't
care what everybody else does with it if
they they're walking experiment and do
whatever they want with it but you
that's the one you
use in time you will start to use this
information here and then you can
use a 15c or a 45 second or a 30 second
but you have to start somewhere and your
starting point is this one this way it
tells that by watching what you do and
when you do your executions I will see
how you use that first presed Fair again
and it'll help me help you deter where
you're messing up because if you don't
start at the same reference point to get
your bearings like this is this is a
common price level that everybody that's
watching can St still do the same thing
that you're doing learn how to reprice
based on that one reference
point basically all this is telling you
is the Market's bullish when it's above
it and it's bearish when it's below it
but we have to allow that volatility
that occurs in the first 30 minutes to
Traverse above and below it
and then we get to a macro time like 950
to 1010 if everything is in play and
they've already made the upper portion
of it Jagged did they not take out this
high with this run here yes
so if it's bearish it would have already
went down here if it had been a larger
gap opening it would have already done
it it would have been done and dusted
and we probably would have ended the
stream button but because it had all the
indications with it was not a very very
large
gap
and how we behaved right at 9:30 and
what we've been doing has led to exactly
what I said at the beginning stream
where it's going to be a lackluster
morning session now that doesn't mean
that that hasn't had setups I mean we
were we were trading yesterday you know
watching them go up and down and I did
it with my private students last night
too teaching them how to practice and do
drills and we ran up $34,000 in just a
little bit of time yesterday here
you're being met with a little bit more
challenging
environment so you have to be highly
selective about what you're trying to
take a trade on what would be wrong what
would be inherently wrong about taking a
trade if the market went below
here over here on the one minute chart
let's say that you waited for price to
go below
that and you went you went short down
there is that technically in your
opinion is that something that would be
viable would it be high risk would it be
low risk if you waited for it to go down
below this low KN based on what you have
an understanding and don't be afraid to
answer it just tell me what you think
would would it be advantageous for you
to be short after it goes below this low
to get to this this level down here I
wouldn't say it's advantageous my
opinion would be it would be somewhat
leaning towards chasing price in my
opinion normally yeah yes
but because we have the smooth area in
price
action over here contrast
this all these not all these these two
relative equal lows contrast that with
that's what's below the market
price so below the market price things
are smooth we have smooth lows
here the market has traded higher
taking at this short-term high and we
went into the upper half of that opening
range
Gap he's clearing his
throat he's coming off of a a
bug
good cough up
a come on man this is basic training you
ain't got time for this [__]
[__] so we have the the market take take
out this High here and it took out this
High here so it had aggression going up
in the upper half of that opening range
Gap was it able to stay
there no they can't hear you shake your
head now
sorry did did it stay there no okay
where did the body
stop at this line right here right what
is this line it's the upper
quadron of the gap between 930s opening
price and yesterday yesterday's 414
final settlement price so when it went
up here the bodies are telling you yes
we went up into the upper half because
ICT is on a live stream saying it's
better if you don't do it so they want
to mess around with it but it's still
okay because the bodies are telling you
that it is not laying a body to the
upper half entirely it's just going to
the upper quadrant level it Wicks but it
left the small little portion open up
here so because it's done these types of
things here I still favor the market
wilting and rolling over and going down
to to attack and reprice into those
cide the problem is and this is what my
students encounter and and this is why I
tell them when we were when we first did
uh paid mentorship in September of
2016 when I was teaching these kind of
Concepts I had [__] in there that
were expecting me to spoon feed them
trade setups here's a stop here's an
entry here's your Target and they signed
an agreement digitally knowing that
that's not what this was I'm teaching
them how to reprice action and the first
lessons I was teaching them was to learn
these types of setups
where if you know it's going to be hard
for you to climb a hill because it's
just snowed and it's
icy why would you want to risk your
brand new car trying to drive up this
icy Hill when you could just go out of
Route wait a little bit go down a
different Pathway to avoid that Hill you
can get to the same destination but
don't do that thing there but
everybody's going to say well the the
shortest path to get to the 7-Eleven cuz
I got to get my cigarettes I gotta get
my morning coffee because I gotta go to
work they're going to do what everybody
else is going to try to do and then
watch it on YouTube you see these people
they see other cars have failed oh not
me I know how to do it yeah you did it
better you smashed in the four cars now
so having an understanding of how you're
going to get kicked out of this game
prematurely or hurt yourself or force
yourself trying to do something that is
not likely to be successful at that time
at that moment not that what you're
trying to do is flawed logic it just
means that you're trying to put
something together that is most likely
not going to pan out at that moment in
time there's going to you're going to
see things that's going to be
uh adversarial to that
so knowing these things and how to read
it
will help in my opinion it would have
helped me I know
that try to uh keep you from taking
trades that you might think are there
they might look like they're really
there and then when you get in them they
run against you and then you get
frustrated and if you're not in in
control of yourself and you can't
compose yourself and maintain that
composure while you're watching price
you'll go on what's called tilt or you
just basically go into gambler's
numbness and you just start clicking the
button because you just want to escape
that pain of what you just did was wrong
and you you can't reconcile it so the
only thing you can do is do what get
more the hair of the dog that bit you
and you go in you just do something else
impulsively hoping that you're going to
get a lottery win because that'll
distract you from the pain and
discomfort of you knowing that you
impulsively did
something knowing that what I'm teaching
is giving you the framework to just
justify why you should sit still just
sit still
paper Trade It demo Trade It tape read
it where you don't push any buttons
that's what you're supposed to be doing
when you see a market environment it's
going to be
problematic no problem it's much more
helpful
and uh
progress uh is better um acquired by
looking at Price like this and saying
okay there's no entry there's no loss I
didn't miss any profit and I'm not
feeling feeling the pain or the regret
buyers or sellers remorse you're not
having that that experience right now
other Traders out there that have been
trying to trade today if they're wrong
I'm not saying all of them are wrong I'm
sure somebody's out there made something
but it's in a market that's a little bit
more
problematic it's not impossible it's not
that it's you can't find a setup in it
this means that having
these technicals like this
today chances of you as a brand new
student
being able to navigate this and have
money money behind the idea of being
right or wrong at the end of that
transaction it's going to be much more
stressful and I T I try to teach my
students watch's this Wick
here I try to teach my students how they
can go in and watch price
action while they're in a
trade take these quadrants
off I like to watch and how price
behaves around its midpoint of its Wicks
I'd like to see it Wilt right through
that and then Rush down into that
cell so it's not it's not enough just to
say you know I have
a I have a I have a model I can see the
relative equal lows I can see the
relative equal highs
um you have to know the lay of the land
the terrain and if if you anticipate the
Market's going to be very
very uh fluid meaning that Dad teaches
there's two types of trading conditions
in the marketplace there's High
Resistance liquidity runs which is what
we're seeing here the Market's having
difficulties trying to run to the
obvious liquidity it's down there we can
clearly see their sell side down but
it's encountering what high resistance
not in the sense of resistance and
support like a retail Trader it's
resisting the easy fast straight shot
rate to the liquidity what would cause
that well the the conditions of opening
up the way we did it was a it was not a
rather large gap a large opening Gap
that's like the precursor too we're
going to have a really fluid Market a
really large gap and I'm I like 75
handles I that's that's personal like
that's my thing I can trade in all this
mess here too but I've learned by doing
these days like this and I'm trading
them and I'll show a recording of me
doing
it when it's like this and students are
aware they can see it's it's being a
little bit apprehensive about going to
where it would obviously it would
obviously make perfect sense for it to
go down to that cell side it would
because it's clear it's easy it's
relative equal loads it's smooth and
we've made it Jagged on the upside of
all of this up here is Jagged and what's
smooth is what what remains over
here so it's hard for them them to keep
submitting to that idea every time it
creates these jumps back up or it
consolidates and it drops and it comes
right back that's what scares them and
they're all characteristics that are
Hallmarks for high resistance liquidity
runs and I tried to teach my students
that when I was teaching Forex that as
soon as you can pick up on those
characteristics in price action when
they're not in the marketplace you have
low resistance liquidity run markets
where the markets are easy they this go
in right from your entry and they this
go right right to the liquidity or right
to the inefficiency and it's fast
delivery immediate
feedback as soon as you recognize you're
in a high resistance liquidity run type
market like this you should dial back
your leverage you should slow down if
you get stopped out really take a a
second chance of
of do I really want to get back in the
trade or let me just take this trade on
paper or let me just tapere it and just
get the experience that way because I've
already took a loss so that way if I
compound that loss it won't be worse and
it's even deor more
demoralizing when it's a Friday because
if you lose on Friday or if you lost
your weekly profits you know that you
have crewed all throughout the week and
here you on Friday and you go on tilt
you go into gambler's numbness and you
just wipe it all out and more that makes
a very painful weekend and I had lots of
them as a young
man I hated it and I I couldn't wait to
get back to Monday so I can go and
gamble some more I going say it would
make you make even worse decisions come
Monday exactly and it was just like this
cycle that would repeat over and over
and over again so one of the things that
the the [__] that like to troll me
with they they take they they take and
they cherry pick certain things and
they'll say well this is why this stuff
doesn't work this is why this sucks this
is why I can't trade ICT knows how to
[__] trade I know how to [__]
trade they don't know how to see these
things and I'm trying to communicate to
not only them so they can pull their
head out of their ass but everyone else
that's willing to listen and you because
you're my son you're perfect example
look what it is it got real real close
to it and then now you see this that's
exactly what a high resistance liquidity
run Market does it's frustrating it's
like you ever see that old commercial
for GE has his old guy and he's in these
fishing chaps and he's got the little
dollar bill hanging from the fishing rod
and he's like dangling The Dol because
and he try to reach for it he's oh you
gotta be quicker than that oh you almost
had it and that's kind of like what a
high resistance liquidity run Market is
like it teases you a lot and then when
you finally lose money and you get fed
up with it that's when you turn the
charts off you go away and you come back
30 minutes later an hour later and it
ran right to where you thought it was
going to go and you're like you son of a
[__] so what do you want to do now you
want to go in the afternoon and rush to
get something back or you go through the
weekend and you abuse your family
members abuse your dog you know go out
the bar get inebriated spend your girl
money on some somebody that ain't going
to go home with you and you just
compound that loser cycle and then what
do you do you carry that over into next
week and you're starting on the wrong
foot
immediately doing all the wrong things
because you have this toxic mindset now
contrast that with here's our here's our
signatures that we're noticing today we
had a rather it's not a large opening
range Gap
but it did
Gap it's not giving me the delivery of
price that would
be suround us with a low resistance
liquidity run Market where it's going to
move quickly to it it's going to be a
lot of give and take back and forth and
eventually after it's grinded down
everybody else because that's really
what's going on that's that's what it's
doing these
conditions this
is manually intervene that means there's
something external that's not script
it's not AI driven these are
all manually intervened
conditions the only
time that it is AI driven artificially
driven in other words it's algorithmic
is when it's time Distortion this is not
time Distortion This is highly
absolutely 100% manually intervened so
that means they're saying no not yet no
not yet no not yet so as as soon as you
recognize
those
uh well that's what call Signature when
when you can recognize that's what this
is or you can recognize it going into
the opening in the morning just simply
avoid it just sit still and you're going
to find that it is so much more re it's
better knowing when to sit outside of
these types of days even though you can
read it and you can see
it it's more fulfilling to me as someone
that's been doing this for more than 30
years now I take
more pleasure out of knowing that they
are not beating me in this whereas a
younger man it was it was constantly
beating me up the bond market was would
slap me around the currency Futures
would slap me around
and I had to either I had to learn this
skill set or I was never going to make
it I was never going to learn how to do
it I wasn't going to able this maintain
an interest because it was constantly
hemorrhaging money
so most of what Dad was losing on were
were environments like
this and or I was going long and it was
a market that was bearish and I just
didn't understand how to sell short so I
I was extremely limited so I had
absolutely no business being in there
trying to trade with real money but you
know everybody does stupid [__] right
so when I teach my students and I had a
lot of people quit the mentorship in the
first uh three months in
2016 and they're [__] idiots like
they're literally they're idiots because
I was teaching them how to avoid Los
losing like that's the number one skill
set like you know as a kid everybody's
played this game before and you used to
ask me as a little boy too Dad if you
could pick one superpower what would it
be could you fly you turn invisible you
night crawler you can teleport you can
do all this stuff and it it's
interesting to see and for the folks
that are listening you know if you want
to actually be a part of it a
interactive study for me and I'll share
it with my son too if you had a
superpower that you could pick you know
what superpower would you pick you can
only have one what superpower would it
be well as a
Trader I would want the skill set where
I don't take losing trades it's [__]
pretty obvious right it's obvious so
obviously we can't say that there's a
scoop a superpower that can be given to
us like we can't mutate and have a you
know a track record that never has
losing traits so we're forced to do what
we have to develop a skill we have to
develop some kind of uh uh rep are have
an Arsenal at our disposal where we can
at least do the maximum in terms of
preventing that or at least not falling
victim to conditions that
would lay a perfect table for you to sit
down to thinking you're going to eat
fine dining and you get McDonald's menu
[__] they food and you you get sick
and it hurts your equity and it hurts
your mindset and if you do things that
are I mean look at what it's doing right
here
this is exactly what I'm talking about
like there are people out there I
guarantee you I'll go back and watch
their streams later
on they'll be in here and they'll be
talking about what they think's going to
happen or they'll be complaining about
oh why is the market doing this to me
well that's what these lessons are for
so that way you don't have to feel that
way I don't feel any
regret I don't feel any I I'm in
different because I knew coming into
today this is going to be a lackluster
morning so how do you use this
information
you don't trade with real money on those
days but you should tape
it or do a demo with one contract with a
micro not many so that way you're not
worried about the money it won't hurt
your ego if you do it wrong and you test
every single time that the market would
be a entry for you to try to get down to
where you would expect it to trade to
and count how many times it fails and
when it finally does if you get
how many things you had to go through to
get that one winning trade is it worth
it when you draw down on five or six
trades and you finally get that oh it
went to my target but look at what your
commission costs are going to be on that
day look at what your draw down is even
though it went to that Target you're NE
loss you're you're you're negative on
the day so you're spending money on
commissions was right it's a it's a
number one uh contributing factor to
over Traders they they can still climb
out of the dollar draw down if they're
good if they're lucky if it works out in
their
favor but what most people do on the
internet when they see people do this
they've done it in live streams they've
done it in hindsight or
whatever they think wow they got out of
that draw down not realizing that the
guy probably had $2,500 in commission
costs because he did a 100 trades you
know so but I was right yeah but and but
they want to project the image not only
to themselves to the world I was right
or I'm a better Trader than you think I
am but let's look at the math behind it
you know let's see what the real
commission costs and NFA fees all those
things add up and the average Trader out
there that's learning how to do is they
don't know that stuff so they fall
victim to these [__] that are
scamming them and they don't have a
skill set to Pro to protect their
student or at least to put them in the
right direction to how best
avoid problem
markets look at it look how close got
down
there but now look where it's at here
isn't that frustrating if you were
trying to be short there's no doubt
about it anybody that would have been
short would be stopped out oh yeah and
they're thinking [__] you know what am I
going to do now go back to the one
minute
chart and I'm telling you these are
lessons that if I was 20 years old and
someone was sitting down with me it
would have gave me framework it would
have slowed my role because I was
rushing to get out a 95 I was doing
everything I possibly could to get
myself into trades because I was
thinking if I get into trades I'll be
able to make more money the faster I can
make money the FAS I could stop going to
these stupid ass jobs and work 13 hours
a day like I hated it I hated it and I
was willing to put myself through pain
thinking that it was worth it it was not
worth it I was going to say was it no it
it it caused that all kinds of problems
and digestive issues um mental U
disorders because of placing so much
empasis on I have to do it right now and
now looking back as 50-year old man I
didn't have to clearly I I didn't get it
as soon as I wanted to happen right
so what did I have to submit to
time and if I did the things correctly
like I taught my students and actively
still teaching is to simply just relax
and stop trying to make that next trade
your entire career it's not a Make It or
Break It Be all end all result at the
end of that next
trade but as a 20-year-old every single
time I took a trade it was like that it
wasn't just you know if I lose on this
one it's okay it doesn't hurt me it
doesn't hurt me mentally it doesn't hurt
me financially but every single trade I
framed did both of those things it hurt
me financially and it hurt me mentally
because I was stressing while I was in
the trade there was never a time when I
was 20 years old I was in a trade where
I was C I was never like that I was
absolutely at my wits end every single
moment I was in the trade and many times
I was stressed leading up to the trade
like almost wanting to
vomit
so and I'm sure some of you out there
are listening you probably feel very
similar things especially if you've ever
experience losing or if you lost some
money and it's like the surest way to
avoid that is give yourself permission
to simply not know what to do at that
given time and for you live streamers
out there like I'm one of the biggest
persons well personality in trading
right now it won't stay that way I'm
just hot right now and when I stop
putting out content and stop live
streaming I'll fizzle out and somebody
else will come up and that's how it
should be but if you're live streaming
Don't Be Afraid or embarrassed to say
you know what I don't know what to do
right now and I with 32 years experience
would have a great deal of respect for
something like that but you don't see
that so much you see emotional outbursts
meltdowns oh why is it doing this to me
oh I can't understand this if I was
wasn't watching a chart it would do this
stop talking like that because the only
thing you're doing is anchoring all that
stuff emotionally and psychologically to
yourself you're chaining all that
negativity to yourself when you do that
and not only are you doing it to
yourself but your viewers are watching
that and if you're if you're trying to
you know be a mentor or if you're trying
to be a influencer you know what you're
doing you're influencing toxicity you're
literally festering
negativity
and it's something that can be collected
by your
audience versus empowering them by
watching you be responsible with
yourself and saying you know what yes I
have thousands of people watching me yes
they all have expectations of me being
able to be right about something or
making money or passing a combine or you
making some kind of money that could
eventually after a certain number of
days allow me and afford me a
withdrawal okay that's wonderful but as
someone that trades I'm more interested
in how people think and how they conduct
themselves and if they're not going to
be willing to admit when they don't know
something and they are allowing their
personality and ego and I have probably
the largest ego on the internet because
it's part of who I am as a character I
have to present that that's I want you
to hate me first so then come in and try
to prove me wrong that's my whole spit
it's that's what I've always done I play
a heel but really I'm a baby face in the
industry like I want everybody to do
well I don't hate everyone or hate
anyone they do certain things that get
on my nerves they go too far with
personal [__] but otherwise I mean I I
don't have a vendetta against
anybody so you as a Trader you as an
influencer you as a student you have to
you have to afford
yourself
the permission you have to Grant
permission that there's going to be
times where you know what it might do
this but I'm I'm just not
technically going to take a trade I'm
not going to do it I'm going to sit
still because it just doesn't feel right
and I'd rather air on the side of
caution than go out there and just roll
the dice and if I'm right I can't feel
good good about that but most of you
that influencers or trying to be an
influencer you'll grab on to that and
you'll Pony it around in front of
everybody look what I did look what I
did yeah bro look at me and that's also
feeding yourself toxicity because you
know down in your heart that you were
not comfortable taking that trade you
just did it because you have an audience
watching
you when you are trading in the privacy
of your own office your own home
whatever you're trading there's nobody
there to inspire and there's nobody
there to impress and there C certainly
no one there to draw your tears when you
do [__] wrong so you might as well just
start doing things with that perspective
in mind and be responsible start on the
responsible foot first that means how do
I present myself a a way or a manner of
going into this where I'm not openly
inviting ruin how can I avoid all that
stuff and by expecting the market to
behave a certain
way waiting for it to be better in terms
of tech
just because you see it delivering where
we said it was going to go today doesn't
mean that that's a day that you should
be as a new student that you should be
trading it it takes a lot more
experience and that's something that you
get by watching the charts spending time
with with me over live charts so that
way you can see oh I can see what he's
talking about it it is going back and
forth in here but ultimately it goes to
where I say it's going to go but you
might not have the ability to be in the
trade at that time because you got into
it earlier or you got stopped out and
you ear draw down and you went in there
and try to do a little bit more leverage
because all you have to do now is get
half of the move you just lost on to get
back to break even you got to stop
thinking about break
even stop thinking about I got to make
my money back get the back Break Even
you didn't start trading to be break
even nobody gets in this business to say
I want to make nothing but pay
commissions I want to be break even I
want to have the same amount of money I
had in my
account when I first started nobody no
Nobody Does that but something happens
when you start doing things impulsively
where you lose sight of what you're
doing and you fixate all of your
concerns your fears and your hopes all
around just getting back to if I could
just get my account back to where it was
before I took this losing trait or
before I started this losing
streak if you stop thinking that way and
say okay I feel that impulse I you have
to journal and say right now I am
wrestling with trying to overcome a
losing trade or a draw down so therefore
I acknowledge that I am feeling these
impulses but I'm reminding myself and
encouraging myself that I am not in
trading to just simply try to get back
to a state of comfort I am comfortable I
have a model that I trust and I did back
testing on I did not rush into live
trading with real money I am comfortable
in my own skin and am home right where
I'm at trading so I'm not in any
emergency there's no emergency I don't
owe anybody money I'm not in debt with
the mafia so I have to get this money
back real quick and put it in their
hands your life is not in danger because
you're in draw down you have to
encourage yourself remind yourself that
you're in this to make
money and if you're constantly counting
what you have and what you don't have
what you have what you don't
have you're going to drive yourself nuts
and that means you're going to be
emotionally trading you're going to
you're going to be trading your p&l your
your Equity care curve or your Equity
slope your Equity slope will be um The
Catalyst for why you're trying to take a
trade because you want to try to get out
of that as soon as you
can and if you're one of those prop
trading guys or gals you're thinking I
don't care if I blow up because it's
just cheaper for me to reset it's
nothing it's just a reset and that's why
you're doing 100 plus resets that's why
you're doing 30 resets in the last 6
weeks because you've already given
yourself permission
you've afforded yourself the permission
to fail consistently because all it is
is an easy reset thank God the reset
buttons
there
what how the hell is that Sound Logic
how is that something that anybody
should say you know what that's a
mentality I'm going to
adopt but yet it happens to majority of
people in trading why is that it's a
compensation for the pain and discomfort
you have to have something to distract
yourself from what you're feeling and
what you're thinking and I'm trying to
teach you just like I was teaching my
paid students that some of them simply
didn't want to hear
it they didn't want to hear it and they
don't realize that there is a way to
recognize when the Market's going to be
reluctant to go where you want to go and
you have to recognize that and then you
have to
wait or do
nothing and there's nothing wrong with
doing nothing
it's better and it's much more mature as
a as a Trader for you to recognize when
you you might be a good Trader I
considered myself the best [__]
Trader on this planet and I got no shame
in saying that that's not me being
egotistical that's just the facts I am
absolutely [__] best on this on this
planet spinning Rock there ain't nobody
gonna trade better than me and I've
invited it and nobody's doing it I will
show you every [__] entry mechanism
and I will run circles around you but
just because of that I know my
limitations I know what the Market's
doing I know when it's likely to hurt me
even with what I know because it's
simply going to say not yet or not
today not right
now and I can sit out here and tell
you I'm going to sit still and I'm
completely comfortable in my
skin little ankle biters nose miners out
there that like the troll they'll say oh
he doesn't know what he's doing but I
guarantee you if you showed your p&l
today if you even have money or an
account at all you've lost money
today and you probably were stressed out
freaking out or you did something that
wasn't even your model you just want to
do something that was contrary so you
can go on social media and say look at
this I'm not here to do that if you want
to measure your dick I'm out here I'll
lay mine on the [__] table it's no
problem but none of them guys are doing
it but they'll come back and they'll
give you all this stuff to discourage
you or make you second guess it I'm here
telling you how to engage this
how to see it for what it really is and
when it's clean price action when it's
going to be real fluid it's real easy
it's easy to see the set ups and they
this run that's what you'll see and spot
those conditions easier and you'll be
able to recognize them by studying when
the Market's like
this knowing when you're going to be
walking in a
quagmire like a
swamp the fastest guy in the world can't
run his his speed in ankle deep water or
mud it just ain't going to
happen anybody else would be running
basically the same speed because they're
all playing in the same field well we're
all trading the same market right now
everybody seeing the same high and low
everyone's seeing the same fluctuation
in price action but not everybody has
the same expectation not everybody is
out here trying to run a marathon in it
I'm
not and I have a great deal of affinity
for the people that are online that do
stream that are honest and they say you
know
what I just don't feel like I should do
anything right now I'm going to stay
with the stream I I'll give some
commentary but I don't trust myself in
this environment you know what that is
that's
maturity that's someone that has done
the work they've done themselves in in
the past they've learned from that
experience and now they're being
responsible as a Trader they're being
responsible with their audience they're
being responsible with their own
actions vers like contrast that with the
the opposite well we're doing a show
here we're here to entertain you and uh
you know what if something happens uh we
all can just go and pay for another
reset it's time to take some
inventory who's influencing you how are
they influencing you are you
better for the influence they have
instilled into
you or the influence they have hold over
you with are you
more improved as a
traiter by allowing these individuals to
influence you or are they actually
holding you back are they encouraging
bad habits that you can't recognize
these are the same people they're going
to tell you they don't
Journal because Journal takes effort
journaling takes accountability and the
question and you have to be accountable
if you're not going to be accountable to
yourself who's going to be accountable
for
you your balances that's the one you'll
never be able to argue with that the
balance in your
Equity the amount of money that you've
made or lost and what you have right now
what's left that's who you're
accountable
to but you put blinders on to it oh well
you know I can just reset I'll just put
more money in it how long do you want to
how how long you want to keep doing that
before you start getting better you have
to recognize when these odds are stacked
against you everything in the market is
there for us to see but
sometimes
sometimes these opportunities are
cleverly disguised in
possibilities that means that you can
see it it's like that carrot dangling in
front of you that that horse or that
donkey it'll keep running towards that
car not realizing because it's stupid
that it's never going to get it but they
keep chasing after it you're doing the
same thing what you're trading because
you don't recognize what you're doing
you're stuck on the treadmill you're not
gaining any ground you're just spending
the wheels and the only people that's
making money are these funded account
firms that are getting resets and the
people that run their affiliate links
they're getting paid back on
commission and or the broker getting
commission costs fees and you're making
nothing so you got to stop thinking
about I gotta get back to break even you
didn't start to be a break even
Trader there's nothing wrong
with being a b a break even Trader you
know where you make a little bit of
money and you lose it you may go down a
little bit and you come back to break
even just by the natural progress of you
you doing what you're doing and what
you're
learning but that's not what you
started and you have to recognize how
you're going to blow it you're going to
do that initially by how you think and
how you behave and what impulses you
submit yourself to
and that's what journaling helps you
recognize and you have to be honest and
be sweet to yourself with with positive
selft talk that means you're counseling
yourself treat yourself as that inner
child that you're trying to nurture not
beat up or abuse and the other half is
how you're going to fall victim in the
marketplace so when there's going to be
a day where it's going to probably be a
little bit more reluctant to behave like
you would like it to do you have a
choice
you can sit in front of it tape read it
for experience and then be thankful that
you didn't put real money or executions
behind it that causes you harm or turn
the charts off and come back after the
market closes and be rewarded that you
had the discipline the maturity the
foresight to know that I know that there
was people out there that did something
in this market today and they got hurt
and they're frustrated because they want
the market to run higher or they want
the market to run lower and it's been
back and forth retracement back and
forth retrace and it's not it's not
really moving a whole lot there's setups
here there absolutely are setups here
but I'm trying to remind you as a
beginning student or a novice that's
maybe you've been around me for a year
or so you're still not equipped to trade
in EnV environments like this if you
made money you might think to yourself
oh you're not me I because look at this
trade and you may probably already sent
me a tweet saying what you
did I don't congratulate anybody in
there because I'm trying to remind you
all and as a collection of my students
that it's nothing wrong about you having
seen this day initially as an
opportunity and then fell victim to it
that's actually good now you have
something to measure your future
expectations against now you have a a i
I touched the burning hot Pop I got
burned I don't need to do that 17 times
to realize doing that is going to cause
me
harm
so the takeaway is this we can see
that the Gap higher in the opening at
930 was higher than the price at 414
yesterday that means the initial bias
during the opening range is
bearish we know that 70% of the time
half of that opening range Gap gets
filled or traded
to in that first 30 minutes between 9:30
and 10 o'clock in the morning Eastern
time on a
Friday we know that there's a likelihood
that the market will want to retrace 20
to 30% of the weekly range I said I was
going to show you that
so all right so we have a weekly
Candlestick you see that
sign up here upper left hand corner yes
that means every huh
yes you lose your voice and Clear My
Throat the uh let's take all the
annotations off real
quick okay I so this is the weekly range
for this individual week we're in right
now if we take the
low draw all up to the highest
high go into your FIB
settings you don't need to half so what
you're going to do is you're going to
take the 0.25 that I have here whenever
I'm doing the TGF measurement I just
take the five
off and then toggle the 0.3 so what
that's going to show me is 20% and 30%
respectively on the Range and here's 20%
retracement from the highest high of the
week and here's 30% of the range so
having this on the chart now we can go
into let's do a 15 minute time frame
so we opened up
here and the 20421
level that's uh this one right here we
opened here on a Friday we had a gap
higher opening so right away you already
know that initial uh bias is for the
first 30 minutes it's going to go down
to half of the Gap so half that Gap over
here
oh that's not correct let me let me do
this one minute
chart trading
hours there we
are and now this FIB we're just going to
highlight the mid
point the 50 level and then take these
off because we're not measuring them
weekly range that we have here so we
have the higher gap opening here at 9:30
so right away we know in our mind our
expectation is it could for the first
few minutes flurry a little bit higher
but ultimately it's going to draw to
that level there because as soon as we
get that first opening price at 9:30
that's a static price limit uh a static
price point it's not moving it's not
Dynamic it's not fluctuating around we
can still make a higher high on the day
in the first few minutes of that opening
range but that constant which is the
opening price at 9:30 relative to
yesterday's
414 we have that measurement that tells
us this is where 70% of the time that
price is getting hit in the in the first
30 minutes sometimes it might take a
little bit longer than that but
statistically they're all seeing it now
and I promise you if you have that me
that mentality and expectation it's
going to serve you well so if you have
for instance this here we can then go
into a
um one minute oh we're already in one
minute chart the
uh it's 9:30
9:31 32 33 34 so 34 has your first gr a
gap there on the moment
chart so
we create that fair value Gap trade down
back up you could be short there with
the expectation that it's going to go to
the mid Gap so you have a 70% built-in
advantage that that trade there is
likely to pan
out add to it it's
Friday TG thank God it's Friday so that
means you also have the 20% level see
watch what I'm I'm taking my pressure
I'm laying it right on top that blue
line look at the price on the right hand
side side see it it's also showing on
the the weekly chart on the left hand
side see I'm putting it right there so
it's
421 and 421 on the one minute chart see
it yes so that's 20% of the weekly range
so TGIF is if we're bearish we're
expecting 20% to 30% of the weekly range
to be drawn down to when it's been a
bullish week when it's been a bearish
week we're expecting the price to
retrace higher to 20 30% of the weekly
range okay you understand yes right so
now because we have an opening Gap here
we already naturally have a built-in 70%
likelihood that it's going to trade down
here so what can you use this level for
a a partial so if you got short here
there's going to be exercises I've put
you through where as soon as you get an
opening uh price like this you're going
to sell
short you're going to use a 30 a 30
handle stop loss and see which one gets
hit first these are all things that I
did in the marketplace when I was using
uh currency
Futures I would use it with the British
P Futures contracted do maros doesn't
trade anymore um the Japanese Yen and
uh Canadian dollar those were my Comm
dolls that I would Kami dollars I would
use this that mechanism to build my
initial uh day trading with with this
idea because in the currency Futures
there would be gap opening things and I
was using this this this is my criteria
when I was trading currency
Futures
so because it works in
Universal uh markets where you can see
the difference between where it was
yesterday and where it is today even if
it trades 24 hours now some markets you
still refer back to the same price
points that I'm teaching and you'll see
that there's a gap even though there
isn't a technically visible Gap like we
have regular trading hours and
electronic trading hours in the index
Futures here there are markets that
don't have that like Forex it doesn't
change it go back and use the same
reference points and you'll have uh a
simulation that would be used the same
way as if it was a gap there so these
are all things like I talk about where
um things that aren't technically in the
chart I'm I'm looking at it that way
where everybody else would not even
think of it it's not even in it's like
it's not in their their expectation of
what what would be reasonable to see
like chasing information based on that
type of uh perspective when there's a
market where it doesn't have electronic
trading or rular trading
gaps well the question is is well how's
this useful to me I I trade Forex and we
don't have that you do because these
reference points are referred to by the
algorithm just because you don't see a
gap in your chart or your platform
doesn't mean that the algorithm is not
referring back to those same price
points by time and when you start doing
that it's like oh wow I I didn't I
didn't see that right that's why all of
you are losing money that's why you're
all clueless but you have built in
advance of 70% being short rate from the
opening bell trading down to 70%
likelihood of that meat got get filled
so you have a built-in Advantage for 30
minutes you have a sweet spot where you
have so many things in your favor versus
and contrast that with trading anything
outside of this you don't know like you
don't know you don't have any data that
suggest that that [__] bull flag you
think is in the chart is going to do
anything it doesn't mean just because
you see a price pattern it's going to do
something that is the absolute asinine
thing that I fell victim to for years in
the beginning and there's people coming
into this Market all the time and they
buy into that [__] and they think oh
well you know the books tell me this ICT
and you're foolish and that's not in the
books so therefore it can't be
real it's it's
crazy but you have a 70% chance go here
from the opening bell but then you have
20% a weekly range so this could be your
target for first
partial aim for this but what happens if
it just goes there is it likely to stop
there no how far can it go well you got
30% right there on the weekly range so
TGF is giving you what
partial
Target the market comes right back up to
30% of the weekly range isn't that
interesting isn't that interesting how
it happened it's actually happening
inside of a fair value Gap as well and
then the market rolls over one more time
into an in efficiency there and breaks
down so what you're doing is is you're
trying to
frame conditions where you have
everything in your favor and it's hard
to find something that would be opposing
it does that make sense yes there are
going to be times where what you're
trying to do is going to be met with
opposition where price is simply just
not going to it's not going to behave
it's not going to bend to your will it's
not going to Bend to your model is not
going to bend to your time being in the
chart and wan to take a trade because
this is the time you're off that week
that that day or that time or you got up
out of your normal sleep schedule to
trade this because it's not something
you normally do so therefore you have
more
expectation or more
demand out of the market and out of what
you're trying to do than any other time
so you're creating these hostile
conditions where you have to perform the
market has to do what you want to do so
you've emotionally charged everything
you've expected the market to bend to
your will you've expected your model to
be perfect you expected yourself to make
money and then you have a market
environment like today where it's just
saying not yet I'll get real close to it
get you excited get you real wet it's a
cold
shoulder and it's very very frustrating
it's extremely frustrating if you don't
recognize that's what this type of
Market's going to
do and then by having that understanding
it'll allow you to hold if you have
initial entries early in the day or
before the session starts pre
session you don't rush your stop loss
into that
range you let it stay back a little
while and if you watch some of the
executions I Shar um a lot of questions
come up with why do some of your trades
where you'll move the stop loss down or
up in in Defence to what I was well you
know in the trade for bullish or bearish
and there's other trades where I'm in
there and I leave my stock just covering
costs in maybe you know a couple hundred
hours or or grand why why am I doing
those types of things and the response
is in this video here based on what the
Market's doing and what I think it's
going to behave like how is it going to
behave how is it going to uh deliver
price is it going to be in low
resistance liquidity run conditions
where it's just going to be a liquid
fluid Market where it just runs real
easy to my targets it's not going to him
and hul spend a lot of time bouncing
around does it or is it going to be high
resistance liquidity runs where I may
have entered expecting something to
happen and then something changes
because it's manual
intervene High Resistance liquidity runs
most times are manually intervene that
means they're in there tinkering with it
they're trying to screw with
the the open interest in the Market at
that given time in that session the only
time that it's not doing it like that is
just ahead of like fomc a nonr payroll
CPI PPI number something that's a big
red folder event that usually comes in
the marketplace like a landslide and
just decimates people
initially what will happen is the market
just marks time it just bangs around
sideways and that's not it's not a time
for you to trade but when it's trading
in a high resistance liquidity
condition like we've had this morning
there are trades there but you're not
likely to have the skill set to
recognize that they're going to deeply
retrace on you they may consolidate a
little bit move down in your favor then
come back up and run against what Any
Trail stop loss would be used for and
then you're stuck you don't get that you
don't get the payout but you get the
frustration at the end of the day or end
of the session where I was I was right
about my trade ICT I get these all the
time I I was right about my trade but I
got stopped out and I got chewed up I
got beat up the TR is real you know all
that kind of
stuff it's simply not knowing what the
characteristics are going to be like
before the trading starts and that's
experience that's also ways that we're
we're outlining here today the larger
the Gap the less likely that it's going
to happen let's put it that way if if I
was going to make a bullet point list of
what are the the signatures that make a
high resistance liquidity run signature
a lackluster opening price gap or
opening uh range Gap
uh less than 75 handles so right away if
it's less than 75 handles of opening
range Gap um that already invites the
likelihood of a lethargic slow morning
doesn't mean it won't trade it just
means by definition that's usually a
Hallmark that starts it right away and
the less that is if it's under 40 you
definitely have a lackluster morning
coming so if it's 75 candles or
less you I'm still expecting it could
happen that's why I'm watching that
first 30 minutes because the first 30
minutes is going to give me the
information I need to say okay we're in
low resistance or high resistance
conditions you want to recognize as soon
as you can if we're in low resistance
liquidity run because if we are your
trades are going to be easy they're
going to be fast they're going to be
immediate feedback you're going to get
right to your targets and your day is
going to be
just quick it going to be quick low
stress
day but if you start recognizing because
we have a a an anemic gap
opening if the market is trading in a
manner where it's just not trying to go
to a liquidity quickly and it's spending
a whole lot of time inside of
inefficiencies inside of gaps what does
that mean let's go back into the one
minute
chart over here the
left actually no I got to go back
through all this and add the
uh control Z
baby I'll get a a message from from the
guys that know how to use trading view a
lot better than me and they'll be like
ICT this is how you can do this this
this I love that I have no shame in
telling you that my students have taught
me more about trading view than I cared
to know really I mean some of them are
really cool things
so how see how we had the a lot of time
inside that Gap
here this was your this is your Gap okay
so we spent a lot of time chopping
around in
there how many times have we hit this
when we hit consequent encroachment like
this and came right back up into it here
it should have failed at that point and
broke lower but it didn't see it did it
did all this type of movement that right
there was telling me okay just chill and
I told you a remember I was telling you
at the beginning of the session it's
going to be a lackluster morning session
that means slow your rooll that means
don't try to press the button that means
expect it to be harder than we want it
to be easy but now this is indicating
that it's telling you it's not hiding it
but you just never had anyone sit down
explain to you how to see it how to
recognize that this is going to be hard
trading conditions versus the days that
just real clean price action this Market
just takes off and runs and until you
spend time with me or you go through
your charts and you look for these types
of things you're not going to appreciate
the Insight that it gives you because it
gives you an unfair advantage against
everybody else everybody else is out
there trying to do the same thing I want
to take a trade I have made myself sit
down in front of these charts and damn
it I'm gonna make a trade I'm gonna find
something I have to have it I'm a Trader
after all it's in the name I have to
trade that's [__] because what
you're saying is is you want to gamble
but call it Trading
you want to impulsively make decisions
that are without logic but you want to
call that informed
trading you want to do something and
chase price and call it informed
decision making and I'm telling you with
someone that's three decades experience
all that stuff leads to ruin given
enough opportunity and time doing it
that way you will lose and you're going
to absolutely hate it you won't enjoy
trading you won't enjoy studying and
journaling and building your Enterprise
your your business is you you
Incorporated so isn't it advantageous
for you to say okay what barriers do I
have in front of me think about every
corporation has these corporate meetings
these these they have board meetings
they have their employee management
every time I was in uh corporate uh
positions at 9 o00 that was the war room
we had to sit down with other department
heads other managers and and we would
look at our kpis our performance
measurements and if things were slipping
in front of our peers we were told look
this is something that's going on is
there another department or something
else impacting your ability to meet your
kpis or Excel and we hashed it out
sometimes it was drama sometimes it was
everybody's doing right great but you
have to have that same board meeting
with yourself every single day in your
journal and you have to have the
expectation that you're doing that for
the EMB betterment for yourself as the
corporation you Incorporated your
business is not gambling your business
is trading and managing risk and the
first role in managing risk is
recognizing when that risk is going to
be
elevated having an understanding of how
to discern when the Market's going to be
a harder adversary today than another
day where you're going to be more
equipped to trade your model and it's
going to be quick easy sudden delivery
to your price or your
targets looking at this you can see
there's trades
okay I'm going to give you a minute
while I take a drink using the 15sec
chart everything that's outlined here on
the chart right now can you see can you
find at least two
setups don't rush through it just take
your time and look through
it because when you get home at
nighttime when you're rest and all you
want to go through your charts look at
this stuff even when it was a a harder
Market you want to go back through and
pick out where the setups were and then
look at what was right before that setup
finally panning out because that's the
keys of understanding how to avoid these
types of days and hurt I'm hurting you
rather
the uncomfortable
silence remember we recognized early on
that it's going to be a lackluster day
that means it's going to be high
resistance so that means your
draw is down here that means everything
is framed on the basis of it's going to
eventually reach for this relative equal
low so knowing that your model is built
around what that first presented fair
value guy that's this darker rectangle
up here when we first traded down
through it it came back up it hit the
consequent encroachment and we wanted to
see price at that time displace
lower and then find something maybe on a
15sec
chart in this in this drop down in the
first retracement into a if everybody
got
um I'm speaking like this was the one
minute chart but we're actually in the
15c chart now but the uh the fair value
Gap that would have
formed on this 15sec chart the first one
would be right in
here but look at the prices dealing in
here so we hit it consequent
encroachment one more time St up onto it
hit the low of it here now that in
itself that is something want to stay in
a low resistance liquidity run
condition where it respects the level
here and it respects the level here but
because we went this many times into it
here here here it's doing what it's
spending too much time in your fair
value
Gap inefficiencies or gaps you want them
to go in stick your TA in the water and
then run
away you just want to have one quick
high five moment and you're out of there
goodbye see you you're not trying to rub
shoulders and elbows and smooze you're
not you're not trying to
uh you hang out in there and if you
start seeing price have a lot of
interest getting back to that same
area that's not good above old highs
it's okay to see that below old lows
it's okay to see that because that's
accumulation you don't want to see
accumulation inside of inefficiencies
you want to see them enter it or touch
it and then repel away from the more
times it touches it's
like well think about like trend lines
okay when I first learned about trend
lines is the more times the trend line
can be touched the stronger the the
trend line and that's the biggest
[__] there is too because it if
you're hoping that it's going to come
back and touch it multiple times chances
are it's going to go through
it so same thing is happening here
touches the consequent encroachment
wonderful Ideal World it should have
dropped right
there if it would done this Wick here
and it just did that then at that time
it should have dropped precipitously and
immediately should have ran right from
here and just gush right through this
low and sped up right before we get to
this low here had some kind of
retracement and then dump down into but
that's not going to happen on a day
where it's going to be high resistance
liquidity it's going to be met with a
lot of back and forth back and forth
back and forth so what's actually
occurring is
this you have the shorts up here at the
opening bell it drops the first
retracement that's optimal trade entry
they're short there sells off if they
don't take partials they're going to
have whether this
retracement this retracement and now we
got relative equal lows here what is
that doing it's creating sellers below
here because retail Traders are going to
see that as what it's
bullish we have a dogee down here we got
these relative equal lows this is
support so now they're going to do what
they're going to look for bull Flags
well as the market rallies up it starts
to consolida in here they think wow it's
going to go higher if they're long where
they're going to place their stop loss
right below here so what is that going
to be it's a sell stop well that's
wonderful because anyone that's trying
to get short today they have willing
sellers at a low price once it goes High
into any retracement it does we have a
retracement here but it spent a lot of
time inside of your
Gap it should have dropped here it
should have dropped here it didn't and
now look we're marking time inside your
your fair Bay
Gap that's not something you want to see
it's doing too much at a level that
should have already had a high degree of
influence over price this should have
never been going on at all but because
it's high resistance liquidity it's
holding it's holding price inside of a
range what range is that it's the high
here and the low here so who's been
making money at this point right here
who's they making money the shorts so
what are they going to run for their
stops where's their stop going to be
above these highs and it runs right up
into the upper portion of the opening
range Gap remember earlier it was pink
and I shaded into the white area do you
remember that yes so when it ran up into
that I talked about how the body stopped
at the lower I'm sorry the upper
quadrant level of it the wick did the
damage but it left that upper portion
open that tells you that this level down
here is going to get hit all they did
was last little run on the stops up here
and they left that small little portion
open that is an algorithm sorry
algorithmic signature it's telling you
it's the algorithm tipping its hand
saying I didn't completely close it in
so that's your that's your okay it's
going to happen now if it would have
completely closed it in and traded
outside of it this would have been less
likely to be traded
is there anything about what I just said
that you don't understand
no fair value gaps when you're bearish
you want to see the upper half of it
stay
open a fair value Gap that's bullish you
want to see the lower half of it stay
open in here what are you seeing if
we're bearish and we're expecting price
to trade down here and all things being
equal that we thought that from the
opening price it's bearish we have 70%
opening range Gap we traded to and then
once we get to the uh the Gap closure we
treat that whole entire range as that
opening range Gap as
a inefficiency and you treat the same
way as a fair value Gap so if it's
bearish ideally you want to see any
turning point when it digs back up into
it stop at the lower half the white area
is the upper half of that open reach
got we stabbed up into it so that was
that last little [__] effort of doing
what wiping out anyone that's
short taking in anyone that wants to go
long but they have to be a breakout
artist here so Longs are trapped long
here shorts are stopped out because both
the long bu breakout artists and the
short buy stop protection they're being
engaged with this rally here so this is
your
Judas they can go back and listen to the
stream where I talked about how this is
good it left that open and everything's
still in play for that to happen here
but the trolls will look at oh look at
this it went back and forth these things
they ran through that's exactly what's
going to happen on these days so you
have to know that this you have to be a
little bit more flexible but now when it
does this price comes back down eats
right through your fair value Gap it's
exactly what you want to see it leaves
the upper portion of Open Range Gap
trades down through it then comes back
up and kisses the low of that first FA
bag gy that's your short that's yours
your stop loss has to be
above your first fair value G and your
stop in this case because it's high
resistance liquid folks this is the part
where you write [__] down on high
resistance liquidity run
days your stop has to factor that fair
value gaps range meaning this if you're
getting short here because you have a
tendency to see deeper retracements that
you're more comfortable uh being in or
less comfortable being in the range of
this fair value G from your entry you
have to add that to what would be here
that's your stop two times this
so that means you're probably definitely
going into a micro and some of these
individuals are listening don't want to
hear that I don't want to trade with a
stop loss that wide then don't trade
today at all but if you're going to
trade you have to afford yourself the
luxury of saying I'm going to use a stop
that is at least two times this range or
whatever your favorite Gap is
so let's do like
this normally you know using this area
here you might think well I'm just to
put my stop loss just a couple ticks
above the Gap not no no no you want to
do this that's your
entry that's your fair value got width
or height of
it your stop loss has got to be up
here because it can retrace and Wick
through and it still go back down so you
have to refer to that frame of reference
that measurement of time sorry of price
so if if the price comes back up at a
later time it's you're affording
yourself not just static price action
it's going to take a real move to get up
there to take you stop out and that way
it gives you the uh the ability to stay
with the trade longer and you won't feel
so scared about being stopped out versus
if you just go in here and it starts to
break away using a stop loss at
consequent approach on a low resistance
Equity run day that's what I would use
I'd go one tick above that but we're not
in that and that's I mentioned in the
beginning the session it's a it's a
lackluster uh morning session that's
coming doesn't mean we can't trade it it
just means that it's going to be more
difficult it's going to require you a
whole lot more
experience so your short would be
entered here your stop loss would be
where it was just mentioned ago and then
it trades down through the 15c Gap but
what is it doing in
here is it showing a willness to want to
run away it's consolidating it's
spending too much time in there so it's
going to be a lot of this it'll finally
move in your favor come right back up
into consequent approachment of that
15sec Gap break lower not take out the
low yet come back up in here drive below
this low on a low resistance liquidity
run
day I teach to take partials every
single time because they're not going to
have the skill set to recognize the
difference between High Resistance
liquidity run days and low resistance
liquidity run B for clarity you want to
be pushing your Edge you want to be
using your maximum leverage but not over
leverage on low resistance liquidity run
dates you do not want to be doing lots
of Trades High leverage in high
resistance the 4 run days because it's
going to be like trying to run in
quicksand you're going to Tire yourself
out and you're probably going to
lose but because I teach tend to take
partials all the time over time what
will happen is they will train
themselves if we're bearish every time
finally takes out a low once it trades
down below that low that's where a
partial will be
taken what type of percentage of your
position would you think is
appropriate on a day that you already
know that you're likely to be met with
high resistance if you have say 10
contracts on which is my standard uh
position size if I have 10 contracts on
on NASDAQ and I know I'm in a high
resistance liquidity run day how many
contracts would you suppose is a
realistic amount to take off when when
it goes into profit remember your entry
is here and once it goes below this low
how many contracts of those 10 contracts
would you think that would want to take
off and there's no right or wrong answer
I'm the saying how many would you think
probably between six and eight that's
actually a good answer I'm actually
surpris I'm surprised I if this is not
scripted I was expecting probably say
like two I'd be like no i' want to take
more no eight would be kind of high but
say six to seven six is is a good one
okay but
then that's remaining four contracts I'd
have to sit through all of this draw
down just all the way back to almost to
where I entered and then once it breaks
again go back through the same motion of
okay now we're we're aiming rate both
below this low but we're in close
proximity to what the original relative
equal low that we can't see it here
because we're we're showing regular
trading hours let me let me go into the
Tren here so you can see
it's these uh relative equal loads that
we framed the morning
on I I already know there's going to
people that probably already signed off
they're like [__] this guy okay but
seriously like those same people they're
going to lose their ass they're never
going to make any money and they're
going to get chopped up in days like
this and they're going to say oh the
market was just choppy the Market's
doing what it's it's intended to do and
when it's not being ran by an algorithm
and there's manual intervention
you're going to see them deliver in a
way that isn't perfect like the
AL the difference is this on low
resistance liquidity run days you're
going to see that the market delivers to
the tip how do you know there's manual
intervention because that Precision is
not
there that means somebody's in there
with a spoon and stirring the [__] up
that's why you're getting these wild
little runs outside of the
inefficiencies
here all these spiky moves okay that's
not just chop and the imbalance of
buying and selling of buying and selling
pressure that's someone saying I want
these
stops I want I'm taking it all the way
back up here to unseat those individuals
that are already short that trail their
stop losses here because there there may
be there may be an
entity that wants to be short and they
don't have the size on they have
intended to have one
yet sounds like conspiracy I know
there's people that's listening and
saying this guy's full [__] I love that
I absolutely love it because they're
never understanding what's going on but
I'm out here doing it so they're seeing
these stops taken
here those stops are absolutely being
onboarded right there how do you know
that because look how much time it sat
there it didn't go one Spike Wick and
then run away it sat there and afforded
the open interest to enter the market
and and that pairing of orders look at
your time in sales for those that have
had have that information right there
look at this area right in here from the
high of that inefficiency all the way to
the high here look how many contracts
were traded there and you're going to
see how smart money slipped right on in
there and then it does this quickly
shoots lower anyone that's short here
here or here they're going to take and
start off loading their short positions
by buying back at a low price what's
convenient is that low has traders that
went long and how they protecting their
position they have a sell stop below
that low so how much below this Market
can it drop below that low go back to
our first framew reference which is
those relative equal lows where the cell
side Li is over
here so if it's going to go below this
low it's reasonable to expect it to do
what Wick and run through those relative
equal lows and it does that here
so even if you didn't understand how to
find the right liquidity pools this is
why I teach partials every time it takes
out a low you take a partial off if
you're short and over time because
you're you're supposed to be journaling
that way you'll see oh wow I didn't
notice that at the time because they're
going to be trading when I'm not doing
live streams eventually here right so
they have to have their own skill set
they have their own rules or processes
and protocols and because if they're
taking shorts and covering partials
below a new low that's being formed once
that happens you got to train yourself
son to take something off even if even
if it's one contract because number one
it rewards your patience it rewards your
ability to find the setup but it also
reduces your
risk and over time all these things
blend together and you get a really rich
tapestry and perspective of what it is
that you're trying to engage in in price
and everything that looks like it's a
choppy mess when you're just simply
looking at like like like this like look
at it here like that versus this that
looks like what the hell is that that's
a seismic graph okay it looks like an
earthquake right like how are how's
anybody supposed to know anything about
the future direction of these individual
candlesticks based on anything that's
being shown here but then when you
contrast that with now you have a
context added to it you have the first
fair value Gap you have the upper
quadrant of the opening range Gap the
bias is bearish aiming down here so that
means every single time it runs stops
what kind of stops buy stops that means
it's got to run equal highs or a
singular high and if it does that does
the market go
lower if it's doing that then you are in
high resistance liquidity run conditions
and they're only manipulating price
higher just to take the shorts out and
they're taking those positions over by
selling short to those buy stops perfect
example was
here that right there and the market
drops down then we have the market right
here does what creates a short-term High
leaves it comes one more time touches
now we're back into uh algorithmic
delivery because the manipulation is
done the manipulation done so there's
two times that they came in today and
they stirred the pot that means someone
caused artificially it wasn't completely
AI driven like it normally is low
resistant liquidity run markets are AI
driven that's why they're real loot
they're real fluid and just liquidity is
easy to see it runs right to it it's
everything to the tick and your prision
is going to be bang on but you will lose
that Precision in high resistance
liquidity days or sessions because
you're competing with the person that is
in
control so is it not Advantage is to
recognize this in an early setting while
you're developing as a student to
recognize when you are out class when
you have a actual predator in there that
you don't know what they're going to do
you don't know that I don't know that so
it's going to be harder for you to
navigate in there so I that's why I
trade with less risk or I simply don't
trade because I don't want to be arm
wrestling with someone that I know is
outside me has uh has control over
something that I don't have control over
and they can manipulate it where I don't
have any advantage and my Edge is
removed
so when I taught private mentorship I
started teaching this way and I wanted
the students to sit in there and it's
very dry it's very boring and if
anybody's still here I applaud you
because you're doing the very
most positive thing that you can do for
your understanding and your learning
because these are things you're not
finding in books and no other educ is
going to touch on these topics they're
not going to touch on it because it's
completely alien to them because 99% of
everybody else that's an educator unless
they've been trained by me or found my a
Content leaked or they learned it from
somebody else that's trying to teach it
but don't know [__] about
it they don't believe in an AI or an
algorithm controlling price so they
think it's buy and selling pressure so
they're never going to think like this
they're never going to look at it that
way but that's why I ask you all to
suspend your disbelief if you don't
think there's an algorithm just for the
sake of our conversations
hold hold that idea for a point of
argument if there is an algorithm there
are going to be times where if there is
a instance where the AI is
overridden okay uh it's not allowed to
do what it's supposed to do it's there's
some kind of intervention that's taking
place when you see price losing its
precision and delivering right to the
tip on on my PD
arrays when I see that I'm not looking
at they're changing the algorithm I'm
not looking at my stuff doesn't work
like an [__] a troll they'll say this
stuff doesn't work look what it did here
look what they completely they
completely missed the idea because I
never sat down taught it until today
when you lose the Precision elements of
my PD arrays you're seeing the truest
indication that there is manual
intervention underway that means
something is a foot that means they're
[__] around with the price so because
you don't know what they're trying to do
chances are you probably don't and I
don't know what they're going to be
doing does it make sense for me to go in
here and try to trade with large
leverage on those days when I know
they're in their conducting business
hell no ain't no way ain't no way I'm
going in there trying to do that because
I already have lost every Advantage I
normally have but you can still study
you can tape read or you wait for the
obvious
disruptions you wait for the
disruptions it spent time in this
inefficiency over here we've already did
the damage up here this was your Judas
swing of the day even though it doesn't
make a higher high than the opening
price this was the Judas this is the
thing that led everybody astray if they
want to be bullish and it also
neutralized anyone that was short
because the stops here here and even on
this little high here is completely gone
they they've turned all those buy stops
that would protect a short position they
turned them into buy Market orders
buying at the market and anyone that
would have used a breakout Above This
High here they are tripped long it
doesn't matter what the ratio is to how
many people bought long as a new long
position Above This high or how many
were using this area here to protect
their short position it doesn't matter
to me I don't need a bookmap to tell me
how many contracts supposed the I don't
need that [__] you don't need that [__]
and I know don't they if they know
anything about me they don't like me and
I say that stuff it's it's bad for sales
or it's buy it's bad publicity but I'm
teaching you to to do this independent
of me and of everything else but if this
been ran up here this was all done by
Design with a hand that was not
artificially driven this was not
algorithmic this is 100% manipulation
and then it went back down in and look
how muddy it is inside the inefficiency
again inside that pink box and then you
see it drop down this is where the
algorithm's firing on what it would
normally do then it drops down and then
right in here this is where manual
interen came in
everybody wants to get out here so
anyone that's short now where's their
stop loss what is this smooth
highs let me roll it up a bit you can
see it see this set right there lower
high than that one so that means it's a
valid what relative equal high so they
intervene here they pump it all the way
up they consolidate in here and then jam
it right up above this inefficiency
clear the stops and then that's why you
see it repel aggressively then takes out
that low and then it goes to Target but
anyone that went short in here or Trail
their stop loss they don't get to have
that ticket ride down here their ticket
gets punched here and they don't get the
prize they get if they're lucky maybe
their commission costs covered or small
loss but they don't make
money but they're frustrated because it
goes down here where they thought it was
going to go and then after this Market
retraces back up into the inefficiency
tra to the top of the inefficiency
here breaks lower and everything returns
back to what algorithmic
delivery everything goes back to
Precision price point delivery but
manipulation manipulation and I'm sorry
wof doesn't [__] teach you that okay
it doesn't happen in Elliot wave and
Pitchfork [__] from Andrews doesn't
have it either stop trying to talk
nonsense recognizing
characteristics where the price is
delivered
artificially by AI algorithmic
versus when someone's in there stirring
the pot
up if you can't recognize that and this
is not an easy lesson I'm I'm honest
with you it's not an easy lesson and
it's something that I can't teach in a
book so you know when you hear about the
books and you're excited about the books
and
whatnot just understand that they're
Limited in their capacity to try to in
instruct that's why books aren't really
good for teaching trading they're not
they're absolutely not
things from other Traders experiences
and how they wrestle through them they
are good for
books technically how to trade a
market could you know could I have
taught the optimal trade entry and
Silver Bullet oh yeah sure they're
there're just real straightforward
simple models but being able to read
price action understanding the
difficulties of having a high resistance
liquidity run versus a low resistance
liquidly
right it's not something that can be
easily described like I can show you a
static chart okay I could show you a
static chart in book chapters and
everything else and show you before and
after and what was commonly going to be
referred to is well this is obviously
hindsight so this person has the benefit
of hindsight now contrast that with
where I'm sitting with you live telling
you in advance that this is going to be
a problematic lackluster session but but
I told you where I want to see price
go you have no excuse to see that what I
was explaining and the difficulty and
how price was delivering today it was
already pre predetermined I knew it was
going to deliver like this I knew
it and you hear people say when you when
you hear people say they they're trying
to predict price we're not trying to
predict price we're trying to react the
price that's why you're [__] losing
you're trying to react to something that
you didn't foresee
happening like if you don't know that
there's a pth hole down that road that
you drive down every single day when you
go to work what are you going to do
you're going to hit it every single time
you need to replace your tire and your
tie rod and your axle and your
struts six seven times in a row before
you realize you know what I probably
should go a different way or be prepared
to go in the other lane even if it is
illegal for a moment when it's safe to
do so to go around that
pothole they're going to say that you
have to react to running over that
[__] p ho and blowing out your front
end
alignment we're not trying to predict
the hazard of that pothole now contrast
that with how I teach there are times
when you're going to get cannibalized by
people that are smarter than you they're
in control of price and you can argue
about all you want but that's the
underlying truth of the
matter and the sooner you align yourself
with the thinking like that it doesn't
mean you're a cultist with me doesn't
mean that you're one of these conspiracy
theorists it means that you're realist
because you can clearly see it's what's
going
on and it gives you the narrative of why
price is doing what it does and when
it's not doing it algorithmically you
can recognize it you can see it because
the clue is it's losing its Precision
elements around my PD
arrays that's the benefit if you start
seeing every inefficiency spending a
whole lot of time price being inside
them you already know what you're inside
of now you're already you already know
that lesson now but how can I teach that
to you just in a couple static pictures
in a book and feel like I've done a good
job at it I couldn't feel I couldn't
sleep at night saying that I wrote a
chapter or two teaching this and feeling
like I've done my due diligence and uh
you should have picked up on everything
and subtle Nuance it's impossible you
have to see me first tell you what it's
going to do and how it's going to
deliver and the difficulty it's going to
deliver and then we all watched it
today that's somebody that knows what
the [__] going going on that's
somebody that knows what is going on
behind the scenes that's somebody that
you can trust as a mentor because I'm
not telling you to send me any money and
I'm doing it for free and you're
watching it work every damn
day so my question to you is can you
recognize that here in this example I'm
not saying you're going to know it in
the future but can you now know when you
go through your
charts when you have your first
presented fair value Gap or any
inefficiency after that one forms how
does price behave at them or while
they're in them because if you start
seeing gaps the buy side imbalance
sell-side
efficiency or Cy vice versa up close
Fair B Gap or down close Fair B Gap
that's all it is
basically if price is spending a lot of
time or revisiting it multiple times
before moving in your favor you already
know now what you're in so what would
you do in that
instance in my opinion you should
immediately drop down to the lowest
leverage if you're going to keep the
trade on go down to the well if you're
trading the uh mini if you have like uh
several contracts on as soon as you
recognize it that that's what's going
on slice it down to just one contract
because number one you probably would be
booking some kind of profit by doing
that you're reducing risk aggressively
which is absolutely good that's a good
thing that is not you being scared or a
[__] young men that's you being a
risk manager that's you being aggressive
about protecting what's
yours the ladies are going to have no
problem taking that exercise on like
what oh yeah this is a problem let me
let me remove the risk or they may say
you know what the hell with this I'm
going to trade on another setup on
another day and I'll just tap or payer
trade it because they're going to be
more risk adverse than you are young men
but the young men that simply just want
to be a
warrior what do they do well my advice
they would drop it down to the low L
leverage it can have and if you're
trading with micros and you have
multiple micros on go down to just one
that way you have zero reason to be
panicked even if it comes back and stops
you out who
cares it took the least from you if
you're going to have something taken
from you wouldn't you like to have a
dummy wallet in today's age that's what
I would have keep a wallet in in in your
front pocket that's a slim wallet that's
where you keep your stuff but if you get
held up you should have a back pocket
wallet that's is a dummy
one never thought about that did you
someone hold you up here man here put
three you know three or four in there
Fold It
Up put a condom in make it look like
it's something
real I know you guys don't use condoms
anymore just like that you're taking
risk there same thing you're using that
same
approach well here you're going to get
more than an STD trading in the market
like this if you don't recognize the
risks you can get taken out
and you do it to yourself you keep
taking those unnecessary risks sleeping
with these grenades on the weekend
unprotected well you're taking trades
and expecting Precision in times where
it's not likely to happen because of the
parameters that were in play this
morning so my question to you is are you
going to take the initiative to start
looking at Price like this are you going
to compare every individual day going
forward recognize the characteristics of
that day was it under the delivery of
high resistance that means it's having a
hard time getting to targets a lot more
deeper retracements and the way you
determine this it's so visually
recognizable by my PD the inefficiencies
the gaps if price is spending a lot of
time in them you are absolutely in high
resistance liquidity run
conditions that is not seek and destroy
that is not the Chop is real it just
means that you're going to have to
submit to more time and then start look
when you're bearish you start looking
for the sweeps of above old highs so
these conditions create what turtle
soups light bulb just went on didn't
it oh now let's roll it back and I'm
going to close the session because we've
been at it for a long time
today here's a
high Judah swing up the upper half
ideally we want to see this left open on
a low resistance liquidity R day this
would have never happened it would it
would have already done enough in here
by trading here failing to go to
consequent cach and then rolled out of
it that would have been enough but
because it is spending too much time
here and it worked too many times here
it is already indicating that okay this
is probably not something you've already
watched me live stream and I was like
I'm going to take a trade I'm and no I'm
not doing this and if I would have
tooken a trade it would have been a
losing trade and you guys all struggle
with the idea you're hiding your losses
ICT I know you're I know you're hiding
them you don't even know the skill set
I'm I'm demonstrating here again I'm
proving to you how I can see that it's
not favorable I'm not here trying to
impress you with doing executions I'm
teaching you how to keep your money so
that we can stay in the game long enough
so that way my Concepts will yield
themselves to
you Turtle suit here's a high runs the
buy stops
drops relative equal highs
runs the stops sells off
high runs the
stops sells off high runs the sell runs
the buy stops sells off do you see
what's happening
there that's a characteristic of a high
resistance liquidity run Market if
you're bearish look for turtle soup
cells that means look for small little
micro shifts in Market structure that
would be viewed
bullishly but in reality it's just them
taking the short-term buy stops and
they're accumulating the positions that
those stops will afford them by being
short and then eventually you'll get to
these targets here and eventually went
even lower there and this is where we're
at
now now is this an easy
day not for a new Trader it's
not not for not for someone that's just
learning is not but I'm teaching you how
because this is going to happen to you
you're going to be met with this Caleb's
going to see this you're going to you're
going to encounter eventually and if you
don't take this information I've shared
today and the recognition of how to
determine a high Reon this is this also
a lesson for you Tanya because
sometimes as proud as I am and as as
good as you are sometimes you mislabel
days and I hope you can appreciate this
and not be upset by it but sometimes you
misclassify days with Seek and Destroy
and it's not it's just simply High
Resistance so um you're not going to see
two days of uh Seek and Destroy in the
same week that never will happen it will
never ever happen but you will have a
potential Seek and Destroy day and then
you'll have a day that's high resistance
liquidity and you'll have it like this
where it's a lot of give and take back
and forth so just be careful with you
with how you're classifying because when
when you're saying and maybe you you've
done it yourself I'm just pointing out
something to another student and maybe I
should have done it in an email maybe I
should have done it privately but I want
you to know that this is something that
is a stark contrast to Seek and Destroy
and if you just mislabel it as Seek and
Destroy what you're trying to do is file
it away as well it's hard and I'll just
I'll just justify by by saying it's
seeking destroy when it's technically
not and if I sat back and just let you
say it what it was uh or wasn't rather
I'm leaving leaving you in ignorance and
I'm not trying to leave you in ignorance
and I don't want anybody that's
listening to you to think that that's
seeking destroy either so what you're
many times describing is high resistance
liquidity conditions and the easiest way
that you and anyone else that's wanting
to learn how to do this can recognize it
is when you see your fair value gaps
form are we spending a lot of time
marking price in them because that's the
clearest indication that's all I need
and it's all I ever use to determine it
so it's not like I'm hiding anything
from you there's no ex extra stuff
behind the scenes there's no special PD
array or protocol it's just simply
inefficiencies should not be seen with
multiple candles laying inside of them
over and over and over again or
revisiting them multiple times that
tells you that you're in high resistance
liquidity conditions that means it's
going to be a lot more range bound and
then when it explores new lows it'll
retrace back into the
range when it creates the new low here
it gets through our Target it retraces
back into the range and what is it doing
it's setting up highs to run them
creating Turtle suit drops a little bit
takes out the lows retraces takes out
the low retraces one more time Turtle
suit then the real
move smaller little turtle soups in here
like that one there study it this High
to that high it's all it's doing it's
coming back to get any Trail stop losses
that's the nature and what's going on
behind the scenes in high resistance
liquidity conditions they're running the
stops that means they're accumulating
and building positions because there was
not enough orders for them to book with
their
greed that's what's going on so they're
not allowing the algorithm to deliver it
because the algorithm is not going to
spend enough time there for them to
build their
position it's just going to be going
right to the tick and turn around go the
other direction so they intervene
manually by sending price artificially
to these levels so that way those stocks
get engaged and they take the other side
of those stops and it allows them to
build their position on a very narrow
range de so hopefully that's been uh
clear enough I I I can't imagine in
retrospect now how I could have done it
any pler or simpler because I'm really
satisfied with what I shared today um
I'm content with it if there was a way
for me to communicate it this way in a
book I would be absolutely content with
not having to mention it again in
another portion of the book it's like
like you seen it you watched me explain
it I showed you the difficulties of why
the prices were going to be like this
today where it was going to go the bias
um it didn't take out the opening range
Gap high and when it was trading up here
said okay that's good and now we want to
see everything is still in play for that
sell side to be drawn to but the main
takeaway is this if you can't recognize
these types of days early on you're
going to fall victim to them you'll be
right about where your analysis is going
and where the price is going to go but
you won't be in the trade because you're
going to get knocked out or scared out
of it and that's happening because of
what I'm showing you here today so I'm
going to leave you with this question
I'm GNA close the session
in do you want to trade in days like
this because you have time to do so or
your peers your friends online are
trading and they made money or they are
going to try to do something today are
you chasing that herd
mentality or are you trying to be an
apex predator that simply goes out and
gets their pound flesh and they're not
in there trying to show what they did
they're just going out there to eat
because if that's what you're trying to
do and you want to go out there and just
make money and have the easiest Pathway
to that and the least amount least
amount of adversaries in front of you
preventing you to get to it
easily if you want the hard way you're
going to trade in days like
this if you want the easy ones you're
going to see when the inefficiencies are
not being
spent with multiple candles and trading
back and forth inside them you're not
seeing them uh hit respond and deliver
right away and you're losing the element
of precision notice that that is the
main takeaways there's two of them here
today inefficiencies are spent too much
time in and they Revisited multiple
times and the Precision delivery is not
there that's not them changing the
algorithm it's just them simply
disrupting order flow for that session
for that day in everything we're return
back to normal on Monday everything will
be doing you know until they want to go
in here and do it again but you can't
predict all the time when they're going
to do it I can't do it all the time
either the day might start off good but
then I start seeing oh wait a minute
it's starting to do something go back
and watch the previous sessions where I
was telling you how to uh uh I can't I
can't remember what maybe you can help
me out I'll mention it in Caleb's video
uh tonight or tomorrow when I do the
video for him um it's the video where
I'm I'm looking at taking an execution
I'm like no I don't like this no I don't
like this and I kept myself out of Seek
and Destroy oh you go it's it's Monday
it was an actual Seek and Destroy
so that skill set came
by result of me studying like I taught
you
today the lessons that you really need
are the lessons where I'm not teaching
you how to push a button to get into a
trade it's understanding and recognizing
how you're going to lose your ass how
you're going to lose money and not
realize how you're losing it so that we
can't prevent it from happening again
whereas now you have a skill set that
once you start seeing these
inefficiencies if price is spending too
much time in them you already have your
first warning
sign even if the day starts off with a
large range Gap it can fall into this
and then what you need to do is okay
where is it trying to go technically
higher or lower and you had to stick
with that bias so in this case we were
bearish so every time in that day you're
going to see they're going to take out
highs for the express purposes of
unseeing those short holders that trail
their protective buy stops lower locking
in profits the market will be manual
intervened they'll run up well here it
is
again here's a high runs up takes out
what that high and then what does this
look like to everybody else that's a
bull flag that's [__] that's what
that is and then it drops and it attacks
the lows
here so by recognizing and seeing what
the Market's likely to do in this type
of environment it at least gives you the
ability to say to yourself is it really
worth my time and energy to trade in
this because I might not be
successful versus when it's a low
resistance liquidity run day where it's
just so easy to [__] make money it's
like what the hell this is like candy
literally like a candy store going in
there and taking positions over and over
and over again long and short up down up
down all over the place because it's not
being manipulated
artificially by manual intervention
where they go in and they disrupt
everything left to its own script price
will be perfect it'll stop to the tick
or one tick above where you think it's
going to go to afford that entry
price but when you don't see those
signatures that's the shest sign that
you need to either remove to the
sidelines or drop your leverage to the
lowest degree you
can or simply paper trade or or tap Tre
it and exercise discipline over
yourself develop self-control be
responsible with your actions and know
why you're doing something and if you
know that you're going to be forcing
yourself to trade like this that means
that you are a gambler and I promise you
this you are going to blow your accounts
you're going to keep making the same
mistakes you're never going to learn
from them you're going to do the same
thing I did for the first three and a
half
years over and over and over again never
learning your lesson and paying a higher
price for your education than you should
you don't have to keep blowing your
accounts you don't have to keep spending
needless hours doing dumb [__] these are
the lessons that make the
money these are the lessons because it's
not about how much trading you get done
today or over the course of the week
it's how much money you have made at the
end of the year when you get your 1099 B
and most of you don't even what the [__]
that is that is a statement you get from
your broker that says you made moneyy
money that's that's that's what you get
when you do things the right
way and that should be your goal to make
money not to impress me not to impress
your peers because trust me anything you
do that novelty that moment of oh well
you may have done something impressive
but they're not going to tell you it was
impressive as it may be to you so why
invite them to it and why ask yourself
to trade in these environments when
there's better trading
environments and that's what I teach my
students that's what was that is what
paid mentorship was paid mentorship with
ICT the private mentorship was teaching
them the the the stark contrast between
these types of days and these types of
environments recognizing them then
teaching them over time with skill that
you learn and you glean from Trading
with a low resistance conditions where
it's easy to trade you get really really
good trading in
knows but studying when the Market's
like this you will start to see how even
in these days you can take take setups
but they're far and few between whereas
a low resistance liquidity run day I can
be buying and selling all day long up
down up down and never have any
adversity in these types of days if I
try to do that I'll get beat up a little
bit so my question to you is which one
are you going to try to to strive to
focus on recognizing and only trading in
those environments do you have the
discipline to do
that do you have the interest in trying
to do everything you can to prevent the
likelihood of you blowing out because of
the difficulty that comes with these
types of days remember you're starting
out I'm not saying someone that knows
how to trade is going to have difficulty
trading this
day I'm saying to you that are brand new
or relatively new you're going to look
at this as it's a choppy [__] day oh the
Markus is just [__] today it's a price
action was garbage today it's not
garbage you just don't know what you're
looking
at and your experience level is so
low you won't be able to navigate in it
but the problem is some of you simply
have a a superiority
complex like you don't want to be told
that this is something you should
avoid and you take it as a personal
challenge like oh ICT said that these
are hard days I'm going to go out there
I'm going to tr
okay prove your point because you're
going to prove mine you're only going to
cherry pick what you show you won't show
everything and why do that focus on
trading when the days are easy
absolutely easy it's like taking candy
from a baby man it's like so fun and
it's makes it makes it easy fun and
enjoyable trading should be enjoyable if
it's stressful you're doing it wrong
you're overleveraging you're over
trading and you don't have a model
that's that that's what it's telling you
and I'm trying to do my best by
supplying my students with a model that
hopefully they can match with their
personality and teaching them how that
absolutely You can predict price You can
predict the future and you're not
anticipating to [__] like I'm not
reacting anything I said that wrong you
are anticipating you're not
reacting if I have to respond to
something that I didn't see
coming I can't trust that that's like a
jump jump
scare
like my kids have found out several
times they almost got jacked in a jaw
when they were growing up as teenagers
like jumping out in front of me and they
get solar plexus strike in there and
they can't breathe for a couple minutes
it's not because I didn't you remember
that [__] uh yeah it's not that I don't
it's not that I don't love my kids and I
don't want to hurt them but I train
myself if someone's going to do
something like that it's probably danger
I'm going to neutralize it so you don't
want to do that type of stuff with your
trading you don't want to increase the
level of difficulty just for the sake of
you want to trade so hopefully I
communicate that I'm starting to ramble
on a little bit now
but uh I enjoyed today I enjoyed
teaching it today I enjoyed showcasing
it
today I'm hoping and then you'll let me
know in the comments and feedback on
Twitter and on the the post I put on
that I usually do on my YouTube channel
I'll usually put the date up and I'll
say what did you learn today in the live
stream if this has helped you you know I
I'd like to know that um for the for the
Joker to say I learned nothing I only
see that comment one time and then I
block you I never see you again because
if you wasted your time typing it I will
never waste my time reading your [__]
again but I want to know do you see the
advantages of seeing price like this
because I'm I have seen students
literally Leave paid mentorship because
they couldn't see the value in this they
were too they were too
shortsighted to see the value in
understanding how to see how things are
going to be so much more against you the
level of difficult is natural with
trading anyway is now been
multiplied to a degree that you can't
measure until after the day is done
because you don't know what stop they're
going to get because you're you you're
you're brand new you don't know what
they're going to be running
for you don't know how they're going to
work with the time of the day and how
they're going to run for specific order
above or below the marketplace you don't
you don't have that that skill set yet
so wouldn't it be advantageous for you
to start classifying your day when you
Journal
always include that
factor do you see the the imbalances
spending too much time holding price
inside them if you see that then you are
in high resistance liquidity
conditions if you don't see that you are
in low resistance liquidity run
signatures that is an easy definition
folks that is not something hard it's
not an ambiguous thing where it's just
oh it's a have to fact you can see it
real time you watched me do it now two
times over live price action telling you
no this is problematic and it's still
the same logic it's not going to morph
into something else there's no other
extra things I'm going to teach around
it you have you now have it but are you
going to use it are you going to help it
help you guide yourself and navigate
through price action now knowing
this I don't know you tell me that's
going to be it for today I had fun this
week I
will do my best to try to uh come up
with some kind of a lecture this weekend
and some review or whatnot Caleb's video
we'll probably now I think about I'm not
going to do anything tonight I I'll
probably end up on his channel Saturday
evening around nine o'clock my time
Eastern time and then probably earlier
in the afternoon um maybe 5 o'clock I'll
have something on my channel in terms of
like a teaching lecture or what not
maybe some kind of a review but that's
it for this one I hope you found it
insightful enjoy your weekend be safe
and Lord willing we'll be back at again
on Monday take care